README.md, before:

# Prediction Market Aggregator

A real-time prediction market aggregator that combines order book data from **Polymarket** and **Kalshi** into a single unified view. Built as a take-home assessment demonstrating frontend correctness, real-time data handling, and production-grade architecture.

**Market:** Will JD Vance win the 2028 US Presidential Election?

## Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# (Optional) Add Kalshi WebSocket API keys for real-time WebSocket data
# Without keys, Kalshi falls back to REST polling every 2 seconds
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local with your Kalshi API key

# Start the dev server
pnpm dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 16** (App Router, TypeScript)
- **Chakra UI v3** for the component library
- **Server-Sent Events (SSE)** for real-time browser streaming
- **WebSocket** (ws) for server-side exchange connections
- **pnpm** as package manager

## Architecture

```
Server (Next.js API Route):
  Polymarket WS ──→ normalize ──→ ┐
                                    ├─→ merged book (in-memory) ──→ single SSE stream
  Kalshi WS/REST ──→ normalize ──→ ┘

Browser:
  one EventSource hook → render UI + quote calculator
```

Both venue connections live **server-side** in a single Next.js API route (`/api/orderbook/stream`). The server normalizes data from each venue into a common format, aggregates them into a single order book, and streams updates to the browser via SSE.

The browser is a pure display layer — one `useOrderBook` hook connects to the SSE stream and feeds the UI.

### Why all-backend?

- **Consistent data pipeline** — both venues follow the same normalization path
- **Kalshi auth stays secure** — RSA keys never reach the browser
- **Connection sharing** — multiple browser tabs share one connection per exchange
- **Testable** — normalization and aggregation logic can be unit tested without React
- **Production-realistic** — this is how real trading platforms work

## Key Design Decisions

1. **In-memory aggregation, no database.** Order book data is ephemeral and changes every few milliseconds. A database would add latency for data with zero long-term value. The server holds the current state in plain JavaScript objects.

2. **SSE over WebSocket to the browser.** SSE is simpler, auto-reconnects via `EventSource`, and is sufficient for server-to-client streaming. No bidirectional communication is needed between browser and server.

3. **Venue-tagged order book levels.** Every price level carries its venue tag (`polymarket` or `kalshi`), enabling the combined/individual views and cross-venue fill calculations without maintaining separate data structures.

4. **Kalshi REST polling fallback.** Kalshi's WebSocket requires RSA key authentication. The app automatically falls back to REST polling every 2 seconds if API keys aren't configured — making it easy for reviewers to run immediately.

5. **Kalshi bid-only to bid/ask conversion.** Kalshi only returns bids for YES and NO sides. A NO bid at price X is converted to a YES ask at (1 - X).

## Assumptions & Tradeoffs

- **Single hardcoded market.** The app targets the JD Vance 2028 election market on both platforms. Making this configurable would require a market discovery/search feature.
- **Polymarket prices are 0-1 decimals; Kalshi prices are in cents.** Both are normalized to 0-1 decimals server-side.
- **Book depth capped at 20 levels per side.** This bounds memory and keeps the UI focused on actionable liquidity.
- **Quote calculator is a pricing exercise only.** No real orders are placed. Fills are simulated by walking the aggregated order book.
- **Next.js API routes are long-lived in dev mode** but would become serverless functions on Vercel. For production deployment, a dedicated Node.js server or container would be needed to maintain persistent WebSocket connections.

## What I Would Improve With More Time

- **Unit tests** for normalizer, aggregator, and quote engine
- **Market selector** to choose from multiple cross-listed markets
- **Historical price chart** with time-series data
- **Cumulative depth chart** (area chart) in addition to the bar visualization
- **Throttled SSE updates** — batch multiple WebSocket events and send to the browser at a fixed rate (e.g., 10 updates/sec) to reduce render churn
- **Connection health monitoring** with automatic stale-data warnings after N seconds without updates
- **Error boundary** components for graceful failure handling
- **Dedicated backend service** for production — separate the WebSocket connections from the Next.js render server

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/
│   ├── layout.tsx                    # Root layout with Chakra UI Provider
│   ├── page.tsx                      # Main dashboard (client component)
│   └── api/orderbook/stream/
│       └── route.ts                  # SSE endpoint
├── server/
│   ├── orderBookManager.ts           # Singleton: manages both WS clients + aggregation
│   ├── polymarketClient.ts           # Polymarket WebSocket client
│   ├── kalshiClient.ts              # Kalshi WebSocket/REST client
│   └── kalshiAuth.ts                # RSA-PSS signing for Kalshi auth
├── components/
│   ├── MarketHeader.tsx              # Market question, best bid/ask, spread
│   ├── ConnectionStatus.tsx          # Live venue status indicators
│   ├── QuoteCalculator.tsx           # Dollar input → shares output with venue split
│   └── OrderBook/
│       ├── OrderBookTable.tsx        # Bid/ask table with venue colors
│       ├── DepthVisualization.tsx    # Stacked depth bars by venue
│       └── VenueFilter.tsx          # Combined / Polymarket / Kalshi toggle
├── hooks/
│   └── useOrderBook.ts              # EventSource → React state
├── lib/
│   ├── types.ts                      # Shared TypeScript interfaces
│   ├── aggregator.ts                 # Merge order books from both venues
│   └── quoteEngine.ts               # Simulate fills across venues
└── config/
    └── markets.ts                    # Market IDs for both platforms
```

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file (optional — Kalshi works via REST polling without keys):

```
KALSHI_API_KEY_ID=your_key_id
KALSHI_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
```

Generate Kalshi API keys at https://kalshi.com or use their [demo environment](https://demo-api.kalshi.co).

Commit message:

Refine real-time order book UI and data source integration
Switch Kalshi feed to DFlow WebSocket, simplify status display, standardize cents formatting, update order book table totals, and align docs with current architecture and single-outcome presentation.

README.md, after:

# Prediction Market Aggregator

A real-time prediction market aggregator that combines order book data from **Polymarket** and **Kalshi** into a single unified view. Built as a take-home assessment demonstrating frontend correctness, real-time data handling, and production-grade architecture.

**Market:** Will JD Vance win the 2028 US Presidential Election?

## Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Start the dev server
pnpm dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 16** (App Router, TypeScript)
- **Chakra UI v3** for the component library
- **Server-Sent Events (SSE)** for real-time browser streaming
- **WebSocket** (ws) for server-side exchange connections
- **pnpm** as package manager

## Architecture

```
Server (Next.js API Route):
  Polymarket WS ──→ normalize ──→ ┐
                                    ├─→ merged book (in-memory) ──→ single SSE stream
  Kalshi (via DFlow WS) ──→ normalize ──→ ┘

Browser:
  one EventSource hook → render UI + quote calculator
```

Both venue connections live **server-side** in a single Next.js API route (`/api/orderbook/stream`). The server normalizes data from each venue into a common format, aggregates them into a single order book, and streams updates to the browser via SSE.

The browser is a pure display layer — one `useOrderBook` hook connects to the SSE stream and feeds the UI.

The UI intentionally displays the order book for a single outcome (**YES**) to match the assignment requirement; NO-side interest is represented through implied pricing (e.g., NO bid at `X` maps to YES ask at `1 - X`).

### Why all-backend?

- **Consistent data pipeline** — both venues follow the same normalization path
- **No Kalshi API keys needed** — DFlow WebSocket provides market stream access
- **Connection sharing** — multiple browser tabs share one connection per exchange
- **Testable** — normalization and aggregation logic can be unit tested without React
- **Production-realistic** — this is how real trading platforms work

## Key Design Decisions

1. **In-memory aggregation, no database.** Order book data is ephemeral and changes every few milliseconds. A database would add latency for data with zero long-term value. The server holds the current state in plain JavaScript objects.

2. **SSE over WebSocket to the browser.** SSE is simpler, auto-reconnects via `EventSource`, and is sufficient for server-to-client streaming. No bidirectional communication is needed between browser and server.

3. **Venue-tagged order book levels.** Every price level carries its venue tag (`polymarket` or `kalshi`), enabling the combined/individual views and cross-venue fill calculations without maintaining separate data structures.

   Price levels at the same price from different venues are intentionally kept as separate rows (instead of summed) to preserve venue attribution and support per-venue fill breakdown in quoting.

4. **Kalshi stream via DFlow WebSocket.** Kalshi market data is consumed through DFlow's public dev WebSocket endpoint for real-time updates without API key setup.

5. **Kalshi bid-only to bid/ask conversion.** Kalshi only returns bids for YES and NO sides. A NO bid at price X is converted to a YES ask at (1 - X).

## Assumptions & Tradeoffs

- **Single hardcoded market.** The app targets the JD Vance 2028 election market on both platforms. Making this configurable would require a market discovery/search feature.
- **Polymarket prices are 0-1 decimals; Kalshi prices are in cents.** Both are normalized to 0-1 decimals server-side.
- **Book depth capped at 50 levels per side.** This bounds memory while preserving enough depth for quoting and venue comparison.
- **Quote calculator is a pricing exercise only.** No real orders are placed. Fills are simulated by walking the aggregated order book.
- **Next.js API routes are long-lived in dev mode** but would become serverless functions on Vercel. For production deployment, a dedicated Node.js server or container would be needed to maintain persistent WebSocket connections.

## What I Would Improve With More Time

- **Unit tests** for normalizer, aggregator, and quote engine
- **Market selector** to choose from multiple cross-listed markets
- **Historical price chart** with time-series data
- **Throttled SSE updates** — batch multiple WebSocket events and send to the browser at a fixed rate (e.g., 10 updates/sec) to reduce render churn
- **Connection health monitoring** with automatic stale-data warnings after N seconds without updates
- **Error boundary** components for graceful failure handling
- **Dedicated backend service** for production — separate the WebSocket connections from the Next.js render server

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/
│   ├── layout.tsx                    # Root layout with Chakra UI Provider
│   ├── page.tsx                      # Main dashboard (client component)
│   └── api/orderbook/stream/
│       └── route.ts                  # SSE endpoint
├── server/
│   ├── orderBookManager.ts           # Singleton: manages both WS clients + aggregation
│   ├── polymarketClient.ts           # Polymarket WebSocket client
│   └── kalshiClient.ts              # Kalshi stream client (via DFlow WebSocket)
├── components/
│   ├── MarketHeader.tsx              # Market question, best bid/ask, spread
│   ├── ConnectionStatus.tsx          # Live venue status indicators
│   ├── QuoteCalculator.tsx           # Dollar input → shares output with venue split
│   └── OrderBook/
│       ├── OrderBookTable.tsx        # Bid/ask table with venue colors
│       └── VenueFilter.tsx          # Combined / Polymarket / Kalshi toggle
├── hooks/
│   └── useOrderBook.ts              # EventSource → React state
├── lib/
│   ├── types.ts                      # Shared TypeScript interfaces
│   ├── aggregator.ts                 # Merge order books from both venues
│   └── quoteEngine.ts               # Simulate fills across venues
└── config/
    └── markets.ts                    # Market IDs for both platforms
```

## Environment Variables

No environment variables are required. The app uses a fixed DFlow WebSocket URL from `src/config/markets.ts`.
